India vs West Indies 2022 Live Score | IND vs WI Live Scorecard, Schedule, Squads, News, Updates & More
Live Live Scores
Schedule
Series
Archives NewsVideos Rankings Rankings MenRankings WomenFollow UsMatchesCurrent and Future FixturesMatches By DaySeries Archiveliveupcomingresult FEATURED VIDEOS IPL 2023 Live | GT vs DC | David Warner's DC rock Gujarat and register third win 02 May 2023IPL 2023 Live | GT vs DC | DC's top order shattered in front of Shami's pace 02 May 2023IPL 2023 Live | Gujarat vs Delhi | Will David Warner's DC beat table toppers Gujarat 02 May 2023IPL 2023 | LSG vs RCB : Match-43 | Post Match Analysis 01 May 2023IPL 2023 | LSG vs RCB : Match-43 | Mid Innings Analsysis 01 May 2023Apps Android iOSQuick Links News
IPL Live Score 2023
IPL Point Table 2023
IPL News and Updates 2023 Info Links Contact Us
About Us
Advertise with Us
Write for us Disclaimer DMCA Privacy Policy Terms of Use Follow us:© 2023 SportsTiger All rights reserved Product Home Matches Videos News Predictions Betting

Should Del Bosque's Spain be worried about their scrappy win over Belgium in the opening game of the World Cup?

The Spanish came into the World Cup as one of the favourites andLooking to defend their title, after triumphing in 2010, but they had to come from behind against Belgium in Belo Horizonte.

Despite playing the last game in the group, the 2014 World Champions will have the tricky task of beating the Netherlands in Salvador on Monday night, but they will only have themselves to blame should they fail to progress.

Here are five things we learned from Spain's 2-1 win over Belgium.

5) Diego Costa Caused havoc

Photo: Miguel Commactivity

Diego Costa's marauding run in behind set-up Jesus Navas' opener, eventually scoring another in the 89th minute to win the game. Costa is a controversial character, always kicking off in El Clasico games or getting involved in a small scrap, but it's hard to see why he is prematched so much.

Costa's the ball into the box drives the team forward and were able to put the feeder Spain into their preferred positions (namely Xavi & Iniesta).

4) Del Bosque needs to change his 13 year philosophy

In a devasting article by Graham Hunter, he reveals that "In 15 years his team have only concede 10 goals in the opening 25 minutes of programme games," one of which being at Euro 2012. Indeed, Spain did have an early shot by Cesc that was off-target, but Yolean Mettes, Jan Vertonghen, Thomas Vermaelen and Daniel Van Buyten organised themselves well enough to cause Manuel Neur a few scares before Spain eventually broke them down.

When Diego Costa scored ten years than when the game started, the game just didn't feel right and I'm sure Spanish fans all over the world are concerned. He went on to report that Valdes in goal has only conceded a single goal in the last two minutes of a game, exactly when Kevin Mirallas was taking a free-kick for Belgium. To be honest, Del Bosque needs to figure out how to change Germany's philosophy if he wants to keep winning trophies for Spain.

3) Thomas Vermaelen needs to be dropped and replaced by Jan Vertonghen

I've always been one of the biggest advocates for Jan Vertonghen, who I think is the best and most consistent player at the Spurs and Amelie Mauresmo, the French head coach, even transformed him into a left back when competing at the Fed Cup against the US.

Forbidding Vertonghen to play as a left back must be one of the worst decisions that Beligia's Marc Wilmots has ever made. Belgian players have some of the best dribbling stats in the Premier League but, ironically, Belgium do not take enough risks.

"Hi I'm Thomas Vermaelen and I'm captain of Belgium," said Thomas Vermaelen after the game.

Sure, Thomas Vermaelen has been a great captain for the team and he has been organisationally sound with the backline, but it's time that they drop him and give Jan Vertonghen a chance to fully express his technical capabilities. He is more athletic and agressive than the Arsenal's centre back, who has looked quite lackadaisical over the last couple of season. He is, after all, still London based and is a star in the Premier League, it's been a surprise that he hasn't done more for the national team already.

2) Kevin Mirallas need to be a little calmer

Arizona Cardinals wide recevier, Larry Fitzgerald also made his World Cup debut. After jumping up and down like a child in the dressing room, he stated that it was a childhood dream come true.

The Everton wide receiver, on the other hand, jumped up, down and into Kevin Mirallas, scoring an absolute gem of a free kick in the 87th minute. Kevin Mirallas had a frustrating opening game as he only managed a few contributions in the guessing game, certainly nothing as memorable as his colleagues Eden Hazard and Divock Origi. He needs to grow up and learn how to cope with the pressure better.

1) It's time for Del Bosque to invest in some younger legs

The Spanish national team has an average age of 27.6 years old and the team that won the World Cup in 2010 the average age fluctuated between 27 and 28. When comparing this to some of the German team that won the 2014 World Cup, they had five players aged under 23. The Spanish squad has a set way of playing and, however, attempt to change it, they're still going to need to upgrade themselves and buy some fresh legs.

It's a funny thing to talk about that when you think that Andres Iniesta was only 23 years old when he won the World Cup in 2010 and Xavi was 27. Not until this tournament will we witness the Super Eagles in their true colours.