Concacaf Champions League: Philadelphia letdown is costly 04/27/2023
Toggle navigation
Sections
Men's National Team
Women's National Team
MLS
NWSL
USL
NISA
Men's World Cup
Women's World Cup
Olympics
Americans Abroad
Youth
College Men
College Women
International
Expansion
Television
Business
Referees
News
Pro Member Access Only
Soccer America Daily
Game Report
Soccer On TV
Paul Gardner: SoccerTalk
Soccer America Confidential
Soccer America Top of the News
Youth
All Access
Youth Soccer Insider
Tournament Calendar
Camps and Academies
Soccer Glossary
Jobs
About
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy & Security
Advertise
Search
Advanced Search
Sign in
Username
Password
Remember me
Forgot or need to establish your password?
Pro Membership
Become a Pro Member
Give a Gift Membership
Advertise
Follow
Enjoy Free Access
Enter your email to read this month's free article.
There was a problem with your email address. Please try again.
Email
By entering your email address, you agree to receive Soccer America Today newsletter and other email messages from Soccer America.
If you're already a Pro member, please sign-in.
Username
Password
Forgot?
You've reached your free article limit.
Become a Soccer America Pro member today to get complete website access to all articles and all discussions and receive all of Soccer America’s newsletters for just 50¢.
This premium subscription level includes Soccer America Daily, Soccer on TV, Soccer Talk, the Game Report and Soccer America Confidential. Soccer America Pro members may read, share and comment on all articles from these paid premium newsletters.
Become a Pro member now
If you're already a Pro member, please sign-in.
Username
Password
Forgot?
Your email address has been verified. Enjoy your free articles.
Concacaf Champions League: Philadelphia letdown is costly
by Paul Kennedy
@pkedit,
Apr 27, 2023
Kellyn Acosta made amends for a handball that cost LAFC a penalty kick in the 86th minute by scoring the tying goal in stoppage time and giving the defending MLS champion a 1-1 tie at the Philadelphia Union in the first leg of the Concacaf Champions League semifinals on Wednesday night at Subaru Park.
The MLS Cup 2022 finalists are off this weekend and return to action for the second leg of the semifinals on Tuesday at BMO Stadium in Los Angeles.
After a long pause, Video Review determined Acosta had committed a handball in the box on Jack McGlynn’s shot to send Union midfielder Daniel Gazdag to the penalty spot, where he made no mistake. The Hungarian had also won the first leg of the quarterfinals, converting a penalty kick in the 89th minute for a 1-0 win over Atlas.
On Wednesday night, the Union was unable to hold on for the win, though,  turning the ball over in its own territory early in stoppage time. A deflected cross from Timothy Tillman came into the middle of the penalty area, where Acosta volleyed the ball off the ground and it bounced past a helpless Andre Blake.
"My group right now is upset and angry as they should be because we had a little lapse in judgement at the end of the game," said Union coach Jim Curtin.
Despite the letdown on the tying goal, Curtin said he saw a lot of good things from his team.
“I really love how the team played," he said, "so this is why it sounds so contradictory because it feels a little empty conceding late like we did.”
April 26 in Chester, Pa. Philadelphia Union 1 LAFC 1. Goals: Gazdag pen. 86; Acosta 90+1.Philadelphia Union -- Blake; Wagner, Glesnes, Elliott, Mbaizo, McGlynn, Martinez (Flach 79), Bedoya, Uhre (Sullivan 79), Gazdag, Carranza. LAFC -- McCarthy; Hollingshead, Murillo, Long, D.Palacios; Sanchez, Acosta, Cifuentes (Tillman 79); Vela (Biuk 68), Opoku (Bogusz 46), Bouanga.Referee: Cesar Ramos. Assistant Referees: Alberto Morin, Marco Bisguerra. Fourth Official: Marco Ortiz. VAR: Erik Miranda. Ast. VAR: Guillermo PachecoAtt.: 17,676.
mls
2 comments about "Concacaf Champions League: Philadelphia letdown is costly".
humble 1,
April 27, 2023 at 10:40 a.m.
Acosta, so underrated by so many.  Love this kids talent and heart.  One of the first gen of FC Dallas talent.  Carry on son!
Reply
Ric Fonseca replied,
April 28, 2023 at 5:01 p.m.
Thx Senor Humble!  I don't think that Phil had a "letdown" as indicaed by P. Kennedy, it's just that the LAFC did not wanna fly back home to L.A. with a loss, and Acxosta was just the right guyu on the spot, at the right time.... as is the wont of our wonderful sport.  Imagine, it could been D. Bouanga, or even the GK!!!... anyhow, just anyin' PLAY ON!!!
Comment
Read more comments >
Next story loading
advertisement
More from Soccer America Daily
Summer Soccer Tour dates and ticket information
Watch: All 50 Erling Haaland goals so far this season
Celtic puts Cameron Carter-Vickers 'out to pasture' to deal with injury
Serie A: Napoli still with one more point to go -- and six games to clinch Scudetto
Watch: 'Wolfsburg women's soccer rides wave of growing popularity'
1 of 1 free articles remain > Get unlimited access
Discover Our Publications
‹ ›
About
Contact Us
Advertise
Privacy/Terms & Conditions
Shopping
©2023 Soccer America. All rights reserved.
145 Pipers Hill Road Wilton, CT 06897 USA
tel. 347-762-2640, fax 917-591-3261
feedback@socceramerica.com