Watch: Concacaf Champions League dog invasion and more
Skip to main content
I AcceptOur site uses cookies. Please read our Privacy Policy for more information. Further use of this site will be considered consent.
World Cup
Trending
News
Entertainment
Videos
Learning
Gear
More
The18 Futbol
USA
Europe
Mexico
Central & South America
Asia
National Teams
World Cup
Women's Soccer
Transfers
College Soccer
Youth Soccer
World Cup Bracket
E-Sports
Fantasy
Beauty Is A Beast
National Peanut Board
About Us
Contact
Terms & Privacy
Follow Us
Search form
invisible
GO!
News
Dog on the field and horrendous own goal highlight Concacaf Champions League drama
By David Moore
March 8, 2023
There’s nothing quite like Concacaf.
@FOXSoccer | Twitter
Get the best email in soccer.
Website Submission
Website Top Of Article Submission
The love we have for Concacaf is hard to explain. The Confederation of North, Central America and Caribbean Association Football is unlike any other region in the world. It’s so unique in fact that the name Concacaf can be construed into being a verb, adjective, noun… you get the point.
On Tuesday night the 2023 Concacaf Champions League got underway and didn’t disappoint with some wild results and shenanigans.
Pitch invader pup
1/1
Skip Ad
Continue watching
after the ad
Visit Advertiser websiteGO TO PAGE
PLAY
Top Stories
01:00
Video Settings
Full Screen
About Connatix
V263765
60,000 watch on in horror as Arsenal throwaway place in Champions League final
Let’s start with the canine pitch invader during the Philadelphia Union’s trip to face El Salvador club Alianza. In the 69th minute (the jokes just keep coming) play had to be stopped when a dog ran on the field and made a B-line for the ball.
The dog got to bite on the ball, Stu Holden got to make a dad joke and it was another reminder why we love Concacaf.
A pitch invader was just the thing to spice up a rather sloppy 0-0 draw that only featured three shots on target between the two teams.
Austin FC with atrocious own goal
Austin FC made Major League Soccer a laughingstock on Tuesday with one of the most pathetic results. The team that is supposedly one of the favorites to win the league this season found a way to get battered 3-0 by Haitian side Violette.
With the turmoil taking place off the field in Haiti, Violette haven’t played a competitive game since May 22, 2022. This should’ve been a walk in the park for Austin FC, but instead we saw nonsense like this.
Amro Tarek scored the own goal for Austin. He looked like a FIFA character when you press the wrong button and smash it into your own net. Yikes.
Sure, it wasn’t Austin’s ‘A-team’, but that’s still no excuse. The game was played in the Dominican Republic and the fans in attendance had a better performance than Austin did. Seriously though, that crowd was providing some amazing tunes.
Orlando City draws Tigres
MLS was slightly redeemed on Tuesday night when Orlando City managed to get an away draw vs. Tigres. The high-flying Liga MX club had only lost one of their 10 league games coming into the tie and were the clear favorite.
Some heroic goalkeeping from Orlando’s Pedro Gallese kept Tigres off the board.
This game also had some Concacaf craziness when star striker André-Pierre Gignac was shown a red card right before halftime. Gignac had shoved Orlando’s Rodrigo Schlegel, however a VAR review determined Gignac would only get a yellow card for his offense.
The best news about all this: we get to do it all again Wednesday night!
Wednesday CCL schedule (all times ET):
6 p.m. — Tauro (Panama) vs. Léon (Mexico), FS2, TUDN
8 p.m. — Olimpia (Honduras) vs. Atlas (Mexico), FS2, TUDN
10 p.m. — Vancouver Whitecaps (Canada) vs. Real España (Honduras), TUDN
Bookmark/Search this post with
Save
Videos you might like
1/1
Skip Ad
Continue watching
after the ad
Visit Advertiser websiteGO TO PAGE
NEXT
360p
720p
HD
1080p
HD
Auto (360p)
About Connatix
V263765
About Connatix
V263765
The Corner: Episode 1 - Adidas Predator Accuracy from...Talking El Tri - Episode 6Tea Time With David: Episode 31Talking El Tri - Episode 5Talking El Tri - Episode 4Talking El Tri - Episode 3UP: Uplifting Stories From The Pitch, S2: Ep. 4, Soccer is an...UP: Uplifting Stories From The Pitch, S2: Ep. 3, Soccer Saved...UP: Uplifting Stories From The Pitch, Series 2: Episode 1, Soccer...UP: Uplifting Stories From The Pitch, Episode 6, Soccer...
5
Trending On The18
Alexander Isak schools 3 Everton defenders with unreal dribble before Newcastle goal
Julián Álvarez earns special praise from Guardiola after wondergoal sends City top
The18's UEFA Champions League semifinal predictions
Paco Villa se la pelea al cáncer – El fútbol mexicano se une para darle fuerza en la batalla
Previous
Next
© 2023 The18
Advertisement
Page requested will appear in 4 secondsCLOSE [X]