Concacaf Champions League announces massive expansion - Sounder At Heart
Skip to main content
clock
menu
more-arrow
no
yes
mobile
Sounder At Heart homepage
Horizontal - White
Sounder At Heart
Seattle
A Seattle Sounders and Seattle Reign Blog
Follow Sounder At Heart online:
Follow Sounder At Heart on Twitter
Follow Sounder At Heart on Facebook
Log in or sign up
Log In
Sign Up
Site search
Search
Search
Sounder At Heart main menu
SaH Store
Sections
SaH Trophy Case
Fanposts
Seattle Sounders
Fanshots
DraftKings Nation
About
Masthead
Community Guidelines
More
All 300 communities on
Horizontal - White
SaH Store
Sections
Ride of the Valkyries - A Seattle Reign blog
#TheFuture: Sounders 2, the Academy and Sounders U23s
Sounders: Trades, Transfers and Rumors
Nos Audietis: A Sounders Podcast
Full Archive
SaH Trophy Case
Sounder at Heart Annual Awards
Sounders Trophy Case
Hall of the Valkyries
Fanposts
Seattle Sounders
Stories
Schedule
Roster
Fanshots
DraftKings Nation
About
Masthead
Community Guidelines
✕
Filed under:
Latest News
Sounders: CONCACAF Champions League
Concacaf Champions League announces massive expansion
Group Stage is back, too.
By
Dave Clark@bedirthan
Feb
4, 2021, 12:30pm PST
Share this story
Share this on Facebook (opens in new window)
Share this on Twitter (opens in new window)
Share
All sharing options
Share
All sharing options for:
Concacaf Champions League announces massive expansion
Reddit
(opens in new window)
Pocket
(opens in new window)
Flipboard
(opens in new window)
Email
(opens in new window)
The Concacaf Champions League is preparing for a rather significant expansion, it was announced on Thursday. There still aren’t details with how many, or exactly how, MLS sides will qualify for the latest update to the CCL, but they will be in the regional pool with a total of 20 North American entries from Mexico, the United States, and Canada. The new format will begin in the fall of 2023 with a group stage and then progress to a 16-team knockout stage in spring of 2024
No, the Leagues Cup isn’t going anywhere. That’s a new twist from Concacaf, as the secondary competition between Liga MX and MLS will have its winner qualify. They other 19 slots will be distributed through league finish and each nation’s cup competitions. At this time there is no word if USL or Mexico’s second division (Liga de Expansión MX) will qualify.
The 20 teams from North America, 20 from Central America, and 10 from the Caribbean will all play two home games and two away games in the group stage. The top two teams from each North American group will advance with three more teams entering a play-in round to qualify for the 16-team knockout stage that will consist of three home-and-away rounds before a single-leg final. Central American group winners would advance to the knockout round. The Caribbean group winners will face off in a play-in round to make knockouts.
Although two spots will be reserved for Canadian Premier League teams, ESPN confirmed the only way for USL teams to qualify will be through the U.S. Open Cup.
Confused? Here’s a handy graphic to help.
This new CCL is again set up for North America to dominate. The big money leagues will potentially populate 11 of the 16 knockout round spots, three more than they do now.
Yes, that’s a lot more soccer for more teams than ever before. A high-quality MLS side over a two-year stretch from 2022 to 2024 might be participating in the regular season, Open Cup, Leagues Cup, and Concacaf Champions League, all while international players are also participating in a World Cup, Gold Cup, Nations League, and friendlies. From 2023 onward, a team like the Sounders could potentially play 11 CCL games a year — four in the group stage and as many as seven in the knockout round — in addition to U.S. Open Cup and Campeones Cup.
The last time CCL included a group stage was in 2016-17 when groups were comprised of three teams. From 2008-12, CCL included four-team groups. Under both formats, teams played double round-robins that included home and away matches against each team in the group. Prior to 2008-09, there was the Concacaf Champions Cup which was usually played at a single location.
Seattle Sounders FC have qualified for the CCL six times, with their best finish being a semifinal run in 2012. They were the second MLS team to win a match in Mexico, doing so in Monterrey, just a week after FC Dallas became the first. Sounders are also one of the rare MLS sides to beat Liga MX sides in the old Group Stage. The USL Seattle Sounders were the first-ever American side to make the Concacaf Champions Cup, in the 1996 competition (which was played in 1997). They had a massive 10-0 win over Transvaal, before getting blown away in the Group Stage.
No MLS side has won a CCL, with D.C. United and Los Angeles Galaxy winning during the CCC version of the event. Real Salt Lake, under Garth Lagerwey’s management, the Montreal Impact, Toronto FC and Los Angeles FC have all qualified for CCL finals.
More From
Sounder At Heart
Match Preview: OL Reign vs. Angel City
Cristian Roldan’s lingering concussion symptoms causing some concern
Major Link Soccer: JJ and Kealia Watt buy into Burnley
Three Stats: OL Reign vs. Racing Louisville
Assessing 2023 through 10 games
Sounders at RSL: community player ratings form
10 Useful Gifts to Help College Grads Enter the Real World
Most Read
Assessing 2023 through 10 games
The Sounders find themselves in an enviable position.
Cristian Roldan’s lingering concussion symptoms causing some concern
Sounders are a bit more optimistic that Nouhou could be back this week.
Major Link Soccer: JJ and Kealia Watt buy into Burnley
Leicester and Everton draw in relegation battle while Burnley adds some owners before they go up.
10 Useful Gifts to Help College Grads Enter the Real WorldGrad to Real World
1/1
Skip Ad
Continue watching
after the ad
Visit Advertiser websiteGO TO PAGE
PLAY
Top Stories
00:36
Video Settings
Full Screen
About Connatix
V263765
Dillon Brooks clowned himselfoff the Grizzlies and into NBAfree agency
Sponsored Content
Sign up for the
newsletter
Sign up for the Sounder At Heart Weekly Roundup newsletter!
A twice weekly roundup of Seattle Sounders and OL Reign news from Sounder at Heart
Thanks for signing up!
Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Email (required)
Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.
By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. You can opt out at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Subscribe
close
Chorus
FanPosts
FanShots
Masthead
Community Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Horizontal - White
Contact
Have a News Tip?
Browse Blogs
About SBN
Company Blog
Blog Openings
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Vox MediaVox Media
Vox Media logo.
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Info
Licensing FAQ
Accessibility
Platform Status
Advertise with us
Jobs @ Vox Media
© 2023 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved
Gambling Problem? Call (800) 327-5050 or visit gamblinghelpline.ma.org (MA), Call 877-8-HOPENY/text HOPENY (467369) (NY), If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, crisis counseling and referral services can be accessed by calling 1-800-GAMBLER (1-800-426-2537) (CO/IL/IN/LA/MD/MI/NJ/OH/PA/TN/WV/WY), 1-800-NEXT STEP (AZ), 1-800-522-4700 (KS/NH), 888-789-7777/visit ccpg.org (CT), 1-800-BETS OFF (IA), visit OPGR.org (OR), or 1-888-532-3500 (VA).
Odds and lines subject to change. 21+ (18+ NH/WY). Physically present in AZ/CO/CT/IL/IN/IA/KS/LA (select parishes)/MA/MD/MI/NH/NJ/NY/OH/OR/PA/TN/VA/WV/WY only. Void in ONT. Eligibility restrictions apply. See terms at draftkings.com/sportsbook. On behalf of Boot Hill Casino & resort (KS).
Seattle
Share this story
Twitter
(opens in new window)
Facebook
(opens in new window)